Our Mission Statement
 
To wisely invest dollars in community efforts that will help impact (in measurable terms) individuals in our society who are dependent on the charitable support of others. We believe the most effective way to do that is to invest our contribution dollars and volunteers in strategic efforts that help those at risk reach their functional capacity as successful, independent citizens.
 
QuikTrip believes in investing in the communities in which our employees live and work. Every year, QuikTrip donates 5% of our annual net profit to qualified 501c3 non-profit agencies, which includes our United Way campaign match, support for National Safe Place agencies, Folds of Honor scholarships and many other agencies that support at-risk youth and early childhood education.

Focus Areas


At-Risk Youth and Early Childhood Education
QuikTrip partners with non-profit organizations that work with at-risk youth, to help end the generational cycle of poverty. We believe that education is the key to reaching this goal. QuikTrip believes that all youth, regardless of their economic situation, deserve the chance to become successful, independent citizens. To that end, QuikTrip partners with non-profit organizations that provide at-risk youth opportunities to grow and succeed.

United Way
The largest recipients of QuikTrip donations are the United Way agencies in the cities where we live. Our employees give generously to the United Way, and we respect and honor that by matching their donations dollar for dollar.

Safe Place
QuikTrip shares a vision of safe neighborhoods and communities. That’s why we’ve partnered with Safe Place to designate our stores as Safe Place sites for at-risk youth.
Safe Place is a national nonprofit organization that provides safety for troubled or threatened youth. Since 1991, QuikTrip has been a designated Safe Place, where runaways and at-risk youth can come in off the street, receive food and drink, and wait for a volunteer from a Safe Place agency partner to connect them with professional help or a place to stay until their situation is resolved. In addition to our stores being Safe Place sites, QuikTrip provides grants to the local Safe Place agencies.
We’re grateful for the valuable service Safe Place agencies and their volunteers provide. To learn more about Safe Place, visit nationalsafeplace.org.

Folds of Honor
QuikTrip is proud to support our military families, employees, and customers. QuikTrip partners with The Folds of Honor to provide scholarships to military families in the cities where we operate stores, commissaries and distribution warehouses. To learn more about the Folds of Honor and how you can help visit www.foldsofhonor.org.