Internet baffled by Doug Ford’s Jiffy Lube comments during Greenbelt press conference
Aug. 10, 2023
 doug_ford_greenbelt
Ontario Premier Doug Ford made comments during his news conference Wednesday alleging the former Liberal government moved Greenbelt land restrictions to build a Jiffy Lube.
Steve Russell / Toronto Star file photo
Ontario Premier Doug Ford made comments during his news conference Wednesday alleging the former Liberal government moved Greenbelt land restrictions to build a Jiffy Lube.

Ontario premier Doug Ford made seemingly random comments spotlighting an oil change company during his press conference while addressing the auditor general’s scathing report into his Greenbelt land swap Wednesday.

During the conference, Ford seemingly deflected away from his own plans for the Greenbelt by claiming how Kathleen Wynne’s Liberal government also removed sections from the Greenbelt to build commercial developments like golf courses, “mega mansions” … and a Jiffy Lube.

“The previous government changed the Greenbelt 17 times … Because they were building mega mansions for their buddies. They were building a golf course … and they were building a Jiffy Lube,” Ford said, adding his government was changing the Greenbelt to build homes.

That’s a reference to the fact that from the time the Greenbelt was created in 2005 to 2017, premiers Kathleen Wynne and Dalton McGuinty made 17 small changes totalling around 340 acres.

There’s just one problem — none of the 17 areas removed from the Greenbelt in 2017 appear to have been used to build Jiffy Lubes, golf courses or much of anything else in the five years since, according to Google maps and some internet sleuths.

The Star cross-referenced all 17 maps of the proposed changes with how the areas look today using Google Streetview, and found the vast majority were either undeveloped or were occupied by sparse suburbs. A Reddit poster who first noted the discrepancy discovered the same.

In a statement to the Star, Caitlin Clark, press secretary of Ford’s office, did not confirm whether any of the removed sites now hosted Jiffy Lubes or golf courses.

She doubled-down on Ford’s statement, however, saying several of the removed sites “are now designated as commercial zones, intense recreation zones, or have massive residential mansions featuring swimming pools and tennis courts built on them.”

Clark continued that “the carveouts done by the previous Liberal government did not guarantee any new affordable and attainable housing,” unlike Ford’s Greenbelt plans.

“Additionally, they did not put the kind of strict conditions on the removal of land that our government did to ensure that landowners give back billions of dollars worth of community benefits and public infrastructure,” she continued.

Notably, Wynne’s Greenbelt changes mainly consisted of minor boundary adjustments comprising just under 366 acres — compared to the Ford government’s opening of 7,400 acres of protected land.

Toronto resident Ryan Brackenbury was first to note the inconsistency in a popular Reddit post late Wednesday. He told the Star he was inspired to do his own investigating after Ford’s comments, saying they reminded him of former U.S. president Donald Trump’s speeches.

After tracking down the 2017 maps showing the proposed changes and cross-referencing them with Google Maps, Brackenbury, a computer engineer by trade, was surprised to find barely any new developments on the land.

“I wasn’t able to find any evidence of anything (the province) is stating — for the vast majority of everything I had looked at, there are residential suburbs that had already existed or were in the process of just being constructed,” he said, adding that developments “didn’t change significantly from what was allowed with the greenbelt.”

Several of the land parcels remain natural and undeveloped, while others are populated with sparse suburbia. Still more feature billboards advertising development land for sale, but remain currently undeveloped.

That said, a few of the land parcels are home to large houses, some of which may have pools and tennis courts — although there’s little evidence of any areas being converted into “intense recreation zones.”

As for commercial areas, one of the parcels neighbours a plaza with a Lowe’s big box store and other retailers; Brackenbury notes the same area also borders a Mr. Lube store (not a Jiffy Lube).

The comments on Brackenbury’s post seemed to reflect the general sentiment felt by some Ontarians, he said.

“We realize what’s going on is generally a deflection from actually doing anything meaningful towards the housing crisis that we’re being affected by.”