Jiffy Lube Partners With Meals on Wheels
Throughout October, participating Jiffy Lube service centers will raise funds to help combat senior hunger and isolation.

Today, Jiffy Lube, an industry leader in vehicle maintenance for more than 40 years, announced a nationwide fundraising campaign benefiting Meals on Wheels America, an organization supporting community-based programs to address senior hunger, isolation and nutrition programs. The Jiffy Lube “Drive To Do More” campaign will raise funds to help provide nutritious meals, friendly visits and safety checks to seniors during the holiday season.

Jiffy Lube International will jumpstart the donations with a corporate gift, with subsequent funds raised through customer donations during checkout at participating Jiffy Lube locations beginning October 1 through October 31.

“Jiffy Lube is honored to contribute to Meals on Wheels America’s mission of addressing senior hunger and isolation, especially in advance of the holiday season when the need can be even greater,” said Sara Smith, chief marketing officer of Jiffy Lube International Inc. “In addition to raising funds to help provide meals, we are committed to keeping Meals on Wheels volunteers on the road so they can continue to make a positive difference in their communities.”

“The holiday season can be difficult for homebound seniors. Harsh winter weather and busy schedules can leave some of our most vulnerable community members at an even greater risk of isolation, loneliness and hunger,” said Kristine Templin, chief development officer of Meals on Wheels America. “This fundraising campaign with Jiffy Lube comes at the perfect time, and all of the funds raised will help ensure our seniors receive the support they need.”

The Impact of Drive To Do More
With more than 2,000 service centers across the U.S., Jiffy Lube and its franchisees have raised millions of dollars to help make a difference in the lives of others. With the launch of Drive To Do More in 2019, the brand extended its philanthropic efforts to provide support to volunteers who rely on their vehicles to give back in their communities. In addition, Jiffy Lube franchisees are committed to numerous charitable causes in their local markets – ranging from education and health to youth development and food security. 

