JIFFY LUBE® CONTINUES DRIVE AGAINST HEART DISEASE WITH MAINTENANCE PARTNERS FOR LIFE CAMPAIGN

HOUSTON, February 29, 2008 - Today, Jiffy Lube announces that it's more than halfway to its goal of raising $1 million for the American Heart Association's Go Red For Women movement. Even though February and American Heart Month are almost in the rear-view mirror, Jiffy Lube wants to remind customers that it's not too late to join the fight against heart disease through the Jiffy Lube Maintenance Partners for Life campaign. The number one killer of women and men in the United States, heart disease accounts for 36 percent of all deaths annually. Customers can support the cause by visiting their local participating Jiffy Lube through the month of March.

"Since we introduced this campaign, I've heard from so many people who have a personal story about how heart disease has impacted their life," said Lisa Carlson, global director of marketing of Jiffy Lube International. "We're very proud of the commitment our employees and customers have shown for this campaign. I'm confident we're helping make a positive impact on the fight against heart disease."

Through the generous support of its customers, Jiffy Lube has already raised $572,130 and distributed 190,710 Maintenance Partners for Life books as of February 25, 2008. The company kicked off Maintenance Partners for Life on February 1, 2008, but customers can still make donations at the approximately 1,800 participating Jiffy Lube service centers through March 31, 2008. As a thank-you for making a $3 donation, customers will receive a Maintenance Partners for Life book, which offers $100 in savings on Jiffy Lube preventive maintenance services as well as heart-healthy recipes and lifestyle tips. One hundred percent of the funds raised by Jiffy Lube are donated to the Go Red For Women movement.

"Heart disease is a 365 day-a-year problem and one in three women has some form of cardiovascular disease," said Jennifer H. Mieres, M.D., Go Red For Women spokesperson and director of Nuclear Cardiology and associate professor of medicine at New York University. "There is a significant and ongoing need for more research and development so we can reduce the impact of heart disease. We are thrilled with the support we have received so far from Jiffy Lube and its customers, and look forward to continued success through this relationship."

The Jiffy Lube Maintenance Partners for Life campaign leverages the strong parallels between properly maintaining both heart health and vehicle health, and educates people on smart preventive maintenance of their bodies and vehicles. People can visit www.JiffyLube.com/GoRedForWomen to learn more about Maintenance Partners for Life and find a participating Jiffy Lube service center in their area. They can also take the _Maintenance Partners for Life _Car CheckUp to help assess how well they are tending to their vehicle's needs.

To find your local Jiffy Lube location, visit Locations.JiffyLube.com.

About Maintenance Partners for Life

Jiffy Lube, America's largest fast-lube company, and the American Heart Association (AHA) are working together to fight heart disease. Through Jiffy Lube's _Maintenance Partners for Life _campaign, the goal is to raise more than $1 million dollars for the AHA's Go Red For Women movement, which celebrates the energy, passion and power women have to band together and eradicate heart disease.

About Go Red For Women

Since 2004, Go Red For Women has captured the energy, passion, and intelligence of women to work collectively to wipe out heart disease - the No. 1 killer of women. Today, we want millions of women across America to take heart disease personally. Using the simple platform "Love Your Heart," Go Red For Women engages these women -- and the men who love them -- to embrace the cause. Healthcare providers, celebrities, and politicians also elevate the cause and spread the word about women and heart disease. For more information about Go Red for Women, please call 1-888-MY-HEART (1-888-694-3278) or visit GoRedForWomen.org.

About Jiffy Lube

Jiffy Lube, with more than 2,200 service centers in North America, serves approximately 27.5 million customers each year. Jiffy Lube pioneered the fast oil change industry in 1979 by establishing the first drive-through service bay, providing customers with fast, professional service for their vehicles. Headquartered in Houston, Jiffy Lube International is a wholly owned, indirect subsidiary of Shell Oil Company. Visit www.JiffyLube.com to learn more about Jiffy Lube and vehicle care.

Disclaimer statement:

This announcement contains forward-looking statements, that are subject to risk factors associated with the oil, gas, power, chemicals and renewables business. It is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable, but may be affected by a variety of variables which could cause actual results, trends or reserves replacement to differ materially, including, but not limited to: price fluctuations, actual demand, currency fluctuations, drilling and production results, reserve estimates, loss of market, industry competition, environmental risks, physical risks, risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets and the successful negotiation and consummation of transactions, the risk of doing business in developing countries, legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including potential litigation and regulatory effects arising from recategorisation of reserves, economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions, political risks, project delay or advancement, approvals and cost estimates.

Please refer to the Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2004 (as amended) for a description of certain important factors, risks and uncertainties that may affect the Shell Group's businesses. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any member of the Shell Group undertakes any obligation to publicly update or revise any of these forward-looking statements, whether to reflect new information, future events or other information.

Cautionary Note to US Investors:

The United States Securities and Exchange Commission ('SEC') permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions. We use certain terms in this presentation, such as "expected producible resources" and "amount of reserves we expect to produce", that the SEC's guidelines strictly prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC.