The story of Jiffy Lube as a publicly traded company: a thread.

Jiffy Lube began in Utah, but it really began in Baltimore. Similarities with the McDonalds story do not end at the simplicity of the business plan. It was a private company from 1979 until 1986 - The following thread was taken from a series of tweets I wrote, so if it reads as such, well that is why, it also might make the break down as simplistic as the quick lube model.

-

Wall Street loved Jiffy Lube - the story was Easy to tell easy to sell. Americans have less time, Americans need oil changes. Local full service gas stations were disappearing. Jiffy lube solves a problem.

The parent company bet that a spectacular growth rate of franchises would swamp all competition; leave it in control of the field, therefore pricing and, in the end offer the company a high and sustainable rate of return.

The parent company received development fees for rights to areas, and franchising fees for opening stores. It also sold inventory to the stores, and took a % of revenue for the privilege of being a Jiffy Lube

All of that is normal franchise behavior. However, it is NOT normal franchise behavior for the parent company to assume all of the risk for the franchisees.

Jiffy Lube took back paper for franchisee start up expenses. and delivered oil inventories on credit. Eventually the balance sheet tilted. Getting there took awhile, despite large short interest in the stock.

The stock was selling at 40 times next years earnings. Their operating income was full of non recurring revenues.

The stock price moved quickly (pre-split) from $18 to $30 a share. The public and wall st. started warming up to Jiffy Lube. They started seeing them on every major road, and corporate kept bringing the analogy of McDonalds, which analysts liked.

The company IPO prospectus dated for July 22, 1986 foreshadowed its own demise as a publicly traded company though.

It was capital intensive for expansion of centers. Development fees were nonrecurring. Management seemed inept at financial controls over the sprawled centers.

Jim Hindman routinely facilitated the funding of projects by loaning money directly or by personally guaranteeing loans from others

Additionally certain members of management had conflicts of interest by owning area developments and franchises. The interest of such investors could conflict with the interests of the company.

March 1987 the stock split. Aggressive buyers drove the price to about $26. Then for those paying attention - there was a sleight of hand. Jim Hindman, CEO&Chairman was one of 4 partners in a LP BATH partnership which in turn owned the franchising entity Lone Star

Lone Star bought 24 shops for $6 million. LS paid 2.7mm in cash, 1.6mm in deferred 10 year notes and 1.6mm in nonvoting LS stock. JL also gave LS reduced fees and royalties on 13 shops, extended to all 24 if they didnt hit targets.

What this did for JL as a publicly traded company: increase revenues for the qt by ??? amount. Rev for the qt was 13.8mm and the notes disclosed that of the 6mm LS sale the company recognized development fees of 935k franchise fee of 90k and gain of sale of asset 658k....

with net income for the qt 2mm the 1.6mm they booked was significant addition. Add 2.7 in cash to the prospectus balance sheet bosting cash to 2.4mm from 0 to some. Hindman sold 100,000 shares on the offering at $14.75 a share. 1.4mm

High receivables, store sales dropping, and too much credit to franchisees had analysts questioning the price. Hindman accurately stated to get their first they had to capture the market, and that store sales were actually not down, there were just many new stores.

in 1987 JL announced a stock buyback of 850k shares. Not a great use of capital when the company is burning cash. The Dec 8 10Q showed debt over 30mm. Net income .10 a share. There were also 31 centers for resale at the time.

The SEC in 87 disagreed with their recognition of development area fees so they had to restate past earnings. The company also purchased headquarters in Baltimore for $10.5mm

Statement of changes shows cash burning. $10.4mm over 9 mos. $17mm for RE $27mm in 87 versus $11mm in 86

Shearson Lehman threw $50mm RE bone to JL levitated the stock. Shorts were squeezed as it ran up to $13 murmurs of a takeover by a major oil company started running through Wall St. Everyone knew it was Pennzoil. When the announcement never happened the price went down to $10 ps

Shearson executives changed the rating to a Sell in 1988, and then filed to sell 100k shares. The debt continued and now 81 centers are up for sale. The first acknowledgement of possible losses on receivables due to franchisees having financial difficulties happened.

Because a large portion of the assets on the balance sheet were franchisee backed significant franchisee defaults would collapse the balance sheet, destroy the book value and throw the company into default

That happened. Default. Feb 9 1989 JL had a $39mm write off. Of that $10.6mm was a charge for resizing Hindmands partnership, presumably the LS deal that created cash for the offering. Additionally a local news station in Philly ran a damaging story that led to lower car counts.

The balance sheet told the story. From 86 to 88 the franchisee backed assets escalated from 45% to 79% of total assets. There was no margin for weak sales, or weak franchisee performance. Inevitably if the company quits adding franchisees the revenue comes to a halt.

Bankers believed JLs problem was easy money. The urge for JL to spend money was too compelling. JL management lost control, lent money to weak locations and expanded too quickly.

JLs price dropped to $2 a share. They sold the corporate headquarters. Sold weak locations. Pennzoil stepped in and bought 80% of the stock, and then paid Hindman to not work.

Shell owns Pennzoil, and Pennzoil owns JL, JL is hardly ever mentioned in the Shell quarterly reports. You wont hear of JL on the conference calls.

Hindman however, historically ended up being correct with how quickly he moved because Jiffy Lube is synonymous with oil change.