Diversity, equity and inclusion at bp

From fostering more inclusive workplaces to implementing best practice initiatives, we are committed to advancing diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) across bp
“We have worked to develop a bp where our people can be themselves and work in a company that cares and also delivers better results. To help the world reach net zero, we need as much creative thinking and innovation as possible – and for that, we need greater diversity, in every respect of the word.”
 
Kerry Dryburgh, EVP people, culture & communications
Diversity equity and inclusion

A network of inclusivity  
 
Across our network, we’ve built some amazing business resource groups (BRGs) with representation in various countries across the globe. These are aimed at creating better engagement and making sure that our people feel seen, connected and supported – all while empowering you to feel a part of our inclusive world.
bp Black Collective
bp Accessibility
bp Inclusia
bp Energia
bp Global Reach
bp Indigenous
bp New Hires
bp Pride
bp Women’s International Network (WIN)
bp Working Families
bp Positively Ethnic Network (PEN)
bp Veterans
bp Wisdom and Experience
bp Social Mobility
Our approach to DE&I
 
Diversity, equity and inclusion isn’t just a box-ticking exercise for us. We take it seriously. We use our global framework for action to plan, deliver and measure our DE&I initiatives and we report our diversity data internally and externally to identify gaps, set direction and monitor progress. You can learn more about how we’re in action and see some of the great examples of our employees’ activities in our annual DE&I report.
DE&I framework
Our aims as a company 

 
We’re always evolving. That’s how we continue to succeed as a company and progress as a team. Increasing diversity, equity and inclusion for our workforce and customers is a core part of our company's strategy. As is advancing human rights and education, building sustainable livelihoods and enhancing the health and wellbeing of our employees, contractors and communities. Through better representation, a strong culture and positive partnering, we can achieve our aims together.  
Learn more about our aims
Diversity, equity and inclusion report 2023
PDF / 4.4 MB
Add item
Improving peoples lives illustration
A focus on diversity, equity and inclusion

Explore how we’re promoting equal opportunities at bp
Diverse bp workforce having a meeting
Gender 
Better representation means better ideas. That’s why we promote equity for all genders across our business. Find out how we strike the right balance
Ethnically diverse team having a discussion 
Ethnicity 
What matters to us is your ambition, determination, expertise and passion – bp will be a place of opportunity regardless of ethnic identity. Explore our priorities
Woman in a wheelchair working at a desk
Disability 
We’re working with our colleagues to understand how the work environment interacts with physical, mental, intellectual and sensory diversity. Discover our stance on disability in the workplace
PRIDE event at Sunbury
LGBTQ+ 
Everyone is welcome to be their true selves at bp. We’re proud to foster an environment where everyone can feel safe and comfortable about who they are – regardless of how they identify. Find out how we uplift our LGBTQ+ people
Man talking on phone with laptop on his lap
Flexible working 
We know that there’s much more to life than work. That’s why we take a flexible approach. It benefits you and us. See how a bit of balance makes all the difference
Join our diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace  
 
Explore opportunities that put your development, progression and experiences first – no matter who you are
Search and apply now
Related content

Flexible working 
We believe that flexible working benefits our employees and our business
Life@bp 
From the people who chart our course to those who put our plans into action, bp is an exciting place to be for anyone who wants to be part of the global energy business
Our stories 
In their own words: learn more about our people, the way we work and 'who we are'