Diversity, equity and inclusion mission statement
Lightsource bp – a global force in solar
Lightsource bp is an agile and diverse organisation, driven by our entrepreneurial spirit. We have created an
open and inclusive business so our people can contribute towards the growth and success of our business,
encouraging global collaboration and equality.
Underpinned by our purpose and core values
Everything we do is underpinned by our purpose to deliver solar power to our world and our core values which
are Safety, Integrity, Respect, Sustainability and Drive. Our diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) mission
statement is anchored by these core components and forms an integral part of our business strategy and future
growth.
What does diversity, equity and inclusion mean to Lightsource bp?
Diversity. Equity. Inclusion. They’re more than just words for us. At Lightsource bp, they’re the principles guiding
how we build our teams, cultivate leaders, and create an inclusive workplace where our people are comfortable
bringing their authentic whole selves to work.
Diversity
This is every characteristic and trait of people and includes our backgrounds, personality, life experiences and
beliefs. Diversity is also about recognising, respecting and valuing differences based on but not limited to: age,
disabilities, ethnicity, familial status, gender identity or expression, nationality, race, religion, sex, sexual
orientation, socioeconomic background or veteran status. Even if these are not all protected classes in all
countries in which we operate, we as an organisation recognise that they are groups of individuals who have
been historically marginalised and we will continue efforts to attract, retain, embrace, and advance such groups.
Equity
If equality is the end goal, equity is the means to get there. Equity is an intentional approach that ensures fair
treatment, access, opportunity, and advancement for all people. To drive meaningful change, we first recognise
that some groups have been systemically and historically excluded or marginalised. This includes, among others,
in the areas of compensation, recruitment and selection, career advancement and training opportunities. We
are committed to improving equity through better understanding of the root causes of outcome disparities
within our society.
Inclusion
Creating a culture of inclusion at Lightsource bp is about creating a space where everyone can bring their ideas
to the table, where people’s differences are valued and where everyone is supported to be the best they can
be in their role and career aspirations. Everyone should feel free to be who they are without judgement, without
discrimination. Inclusion creates a space of psychological safety whilst driving innovation. At Lightsource bp, we
will foster, encourage, and promote a sense of belonging.
2
Our commitments (from hire to retire)
Starting the journey (recruitment and selection)
1. Partner with recruiting agencies that have a proven track record of engaging and attracting diverse
populations.
2. Review job descriptions for language that may unintentionally reduce the number of diverse applicants.
3. Increase pool of diverse candidates by posting employment opportunities within job boards that are
geared towards diverse populations.
4. Ensure equality in interview process by providing training, tools, and resources to hiring leaders.
How we will make DE&I a sustainable force at Lightsource bp
1. Advocate: seek the same standards for DE&I from our external partners as we apply to ourselves.
Challenge and speak-out on issues which are meaningful to us to empower our people to act as DE&I
ambassadors within the company and outside it.
2. Invest in learning: commit to, and invest in, continued education on DE&I through targeted topic
training and team sharing sessions.
3. Measure our success: gather better data on people traits to help identify historically marginalised
groups. Where legally permitted, share these results across the company, to highlight people trait gaps,
areas of excellence, and where progress is made.
4. Ensure equitable rewards: make equitable decisions on compensation and performance evaluation by
analysing internal and external benchmarks.
5. Provide equal opportunities: advance career and training opportunities.
6. Maintain awareness: promote the company’s ‘Speak up Program’
.
7. Approach each other: solicit continuous feedback through check-ins across the organisation, no matter
your title, with positive intent and an open mind.
8. Hold ourselves, each other, and our leadership accountable: implement our commitments to DE&I.
9. Create inclusive events: promote interaction and inclusion across the business efficiently, equally, and
transparently.
10. Promote work-life integration, flexibility, and wellbeing: encourage people to bring their full self to
work.
Lasting impressions
1. Acknowledge: get feedback from leavers through exit surveys and grow from lessons learned.
2. Continue conversations: maintain our vibe beyond people’s time here through an alumni network.
Our framework
We have created a DE&I framework to ensure we continue to actively engage across our organisation to embed
and improve on our commitments. The framework sets out a path to continual improvement. It will be managed
by our vibes committee and will continuously evolve through research, understanding and honest
communication throughout our organisation.
3
vibes
We have set up a governance committee called vibes (Volunteering, Inclusivity, Belonging, Equality and Society)
to ensure our DE&I Mission Statement is embedded throughout our organisation.
The vibes committee will own, update, and report on the DE&I framework to review its continued legitimacy.
Regularly assessing where we are as a company and identifying areas for improvement for Lightsource bp, and
its people, so that we continue to evolve.