Valvoline to release Colorado workers from agreements restricting former employees
by: Heather Willard Posted: Aug 1, 2024 / 03:12 PM MDT Updated: Aug 1, 2024 / 03:12 PM MDT
DENVER (KDVR) — On Wednesday, Colorado Attorney General Phil Weiser joined six other U.S. Attorneys General in an agreement with Valvoline to end enforcement of its non-compete and non-solicitation agreements.

According to the agreement provided by Weiser’s office, the oil change and auto service provider will no longer enforce non-compete agreements on its hourly instant oil change workers, both past and present.

The agreements prohibited employees from investing, working for, or engaging in the automotive lubricants business for a year after leaving Valvoline. The agreements also added that restriction for all stores within 100 miles of the employee’s primary worksite.

The non-solicitation agreements prohibited former employees from trying to hire any Valvoline employees, and from taking away any Valvoline customers for a year after the job was terminated.

“Non-compete agreements are widespread in the workforce. These unfair agreements keep wages low, place an undue burden on workers, and significantly reduce their future job prospects,” Weiser said in a release. “In Colorado, we are committed to protecting workers and fighting for fair treatment for all. Today’s agreement provides security that Colorado Valvoline employees will not be subject to such restrictive employment conditions going forward.”

Valvoline stores are located throughout Colorado, ranging from Avon to Pueblo and Fruita to Parker. It’s unclear how many employees Valvoline has in the state, but Weiser reported there are 440 current employees and 500 former employees throughout the seven states included in the agreement with the auto servicer. Those states include Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New York and Pennsylvania.

Valvoline has 15 days to issue notices to all current and former employees who stopped working at the company within the past year. If the agreement is violated, the state’s attorney general can seek a $500,000 penalty.