Bud Light Boycott Effects Endure—Brand Drops To Third
Alicia ParkJul 18, 2024,
Topline

Bud Light fell to third place in U.S. beer sales as Michelob Ultra took its place behind the top-selling Modelo, reinforcing the impact of the 2023 Bud Light boycott, which toppled the brand from its No. 1 spot.

Bud Light BrandBud Light Brand
Bud Light cans are seen in a store. (Photo by Jakub Porzycki/NurPhoto via Getty Images)
NurPhoto via Getty Images
Key Facts

More than a year after a boycott against Bud Light for its work with transgender influencer Dylan Mulvaney, the brand continues to see losses as competitors have experienced upticks in sales.

In the four weeks ending July 6, the U.S. beer market was led by Modelo—which overtook Bud Light last May—with 9.7%, followed by Michelob Ultra with 7.3%, Bud Light with 6.5% and Corona Extra sitting just below 6%.

The crucial four-week period includes the July Fourth weekend, which can heavily impact a beer brand’s yearly performance, according to the Wall Street Journal.

While Bud Light continues to decline, its brewer Anheuser-Busch InBev is also the maker of Michelob Ultra and Busch Light—both of which have seen increases in sales in the four week period—though AB InBev shares have dipped 4% year to date.

Get Forbes Breaking News Text Alerts: We’re launching text message alerts so you'll always know the biggest stories shaping the day’s headlines. Text “Alerts” to (201) 335-0739 or sign up here.

Big Number

$1.4 billion. That’s how much Bud light lost in U.S. beer sales last year after the controversy. The company lost over $27 billion in value following the controversy, and their U.S. market share slashed by half since, largely fueled by U.S. retailers reducing shelf space up to 7.5% for the brand. While the brewer continues to push out its other brands like Michelob Ultra, the significant market share gained by Constellation Brand’s Modelo Especial changed the playing field. Meanwhile, AB InBev hopes to build more momentum for Michelob Ultra through partnerships at Copa América and the Paris Olympics this summer.

Key Background

Bud Light was launched into a culture war last year when the brand partnered with Dylan Mulvaney, a transgender influencer who shot to popularity for publicly sharing the details of her transition on social media. Alissa Heinerschied, then-vice president of marketing, said she wanted to change the “fratty” image of Bud Light to create a more inclusive reputation in an interview that sparked accusations the brand was abandoning its core customer base. The company was left in the middle of a political crisis with Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis urging officials to pursue legal action against AB InBev for violating their obligations towards shareholders and LGBTQ+ advocates criticizing the company for failing to support Mulvaney. Conservatives celebrated a boycott against the company, resulting in a massive hit to the brand’s reputation and sales in the U.S.

Tangent

Ahead of the Super Bowl this year, Donald Trump gave an unexpected endorsement for Bud Light after he criticized the company on Truth Social. Two days after criticizing Bud Light’s advertisement with Mulvaney, he applauded the company for their work employing thousands of Americans calling it a “Great American brand” that deserves a “Second Chance.” AB InBev’s shares were up 5% the day following the post, the Wall Street Journal reported.

Top Ten U.s. Beer Brands

Here are the top ten U.S. beer brands by market share in four weeks ending July 6, according to an analysis by Bump Williams Consulting.

Modelo Especial (9.7%)
Michelob Ultra (7.3%)
Bud Light (6.5%)
Corona Extra (5.8%)
Coors Light (5.7%)
Miller Lite (4.8%)
Budweiser (2.9%)
Busch Light (2.8%)
Natural Light (1.8%)
Miller High Life (1.0%)
Surprising Fact

Conservative activist Leonard Leo contributed to the Bud Light boycott. According to a tax filing investigation by Accountable.US., Leo donated $350,000 to Consumers Defense, an arm of Consumers’ Research that aims to protect consumers from “woke capitalism,'' through the Concord Fund, a group that is said to be linked to Leo. The donation was made weeks before Consumers’ Research launched an ad campaign called “woke alerts,” which executive director Will Hild said was in response to Bud Light, Jack Daniels and Bank of America’s recent progressive adverts he said misaligned with key consumers. In parallel, the emergence of an anti-ESG and anti-DEI movement last year included investors and companies pulling away from ESG initiatives and governors in 19 states joining an anti-ESG coalition.

Further Reading

Here's Everything Bud Light Is Doing To Regain Lost Audience—Including New Super Bowl Ad (Forbes)