From state governments to universities — facing continued pushback on ESG and DEI initiatives
Steve BlonderFebruary 9, 202412:35 PM ESTUpdated 8 months ago
Cars and people move up and down State Street in smog filled downtown Salt Lake City
Cars and people move up and down State Street in smog filled downtown Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S. December 12, 2017. Sometimes during the winter, temperature inversions form in Salt Lake Valley, when the upper air temperature is warmer than the air on the valley floor, forming a lid, trapping polluted air. REUTERS/George Frey Purchase Licensing Rights
February 9, 2024 - For several years, the media has been replete with stories about companies promoting their Environmental Social Governance (ESG) initiatives and Diversity Equity and Inclusion (DEI) efforts. Investment vehicles have been established to promote investments in sustainable industries and companies engaged in socially responsible practices.

But the past year has seen the emergence of the anti-ESG movement. The actors behind this movement include politicians who are deriding the use of government funds to support concepts that are antithetical to certain conservative beliefs, and private organizations aimed at rolling back DEI and ESG initiatives in both the corporate realm and on college campuses. One could ask whether ESG has become the latest dirty word in corporate America.

Advertisement · Scroll to continue
So, what are the facts?

Morningstar reports that in the first nine months of 2023, investors pulled more than $14 million from ESG funds. FactSet reports that by the second quarter of last year, only 61 companies in the S&P 500 mentioned ESG initiatives on earnings calls (the lowest level since 2020) — a decrease from 151 in the fourth quarter of 2021.

In the political arena, governors from 19 states joined an anti-ESG coalition. Government officials (mostly state attorneys general) in over 28 states signed on to initiatives targeting companies' ESG-related practices.

Advertisement · Scroll to continue
In 2023, over 150 anti-ESG bills and resolutions were introduced in 37 states, with at least 40 anti-ESG laws having been enacted in 18 states. This new legislation generally falls within four main categories:

•Contracting restrictions prohibiting government from contracting with entities absent verification that the contracting party does not and will not boycott other companies or industries;

•Laws prohibiting public entities (e.g., state-sponsored pension plans) from considering ESG-related factors when making investment decisions;

•Laws authorizing a blacklist of financial institutions that boycott companies in certain industries; and

•Anti-discrimination laws prohibiting state entities from using ESG scores or other types of social credits.

The courts have also become a hotbed of ESG and DEI litigation. On the ESG front, ExxonMobil sued two sustainable investment firms to block a shareholder proposal from being brought to a vote at the company's annual shareholder meeting. At issue is a proposal urging the company to set aggressive emissions reduction targets and address emissions stemming from customer use of the company's products; the company claims the proposal infringes on management's authority.

The courts, however, have not uniformly sided with the anti-ESG claims. In September 2023, a Trump-appointed federal judge rejected a challenge to a federal rule allowing employee retirement plans to consider ESG risk information in making investment decisions. The lawsuit was brought by 26 Republican attorneys general.

In the aftermath of George Floyd's killing in 2020 and the ensuing public protests, corporations engaged in a rush of support of DEI programs, as hundreds of companies announced new diversity initiatives. Now, there has been a pushback against these programs. Within the past year, more than 20 states have considered or passed laws aimed at DEI initiatives.

Since the Supreme Court's decision in June 2023 striking down race-based admissions affirmative action policies at the university level, anti-DEI proponents have wasted no time in seeking to extend the decision to address employer DEI efforts. For example, 13 state Attorneys General sent a warning letter to Microsoft and other Fortune 100 CEOs regarding the "serious legal consequences" of using race as a factor in contracting or employment practices and urging the companies to reexamine their DEI policies. Lawsuits have been filed targeting government contracting decisions, funding decisions, and even law firm diversity fellowships.

Most recently, the Wisconsin Legislature approved the expenditure of nearly $800 million to build a new engineering building on campus at the University of Wisconsin campus in Madison and to support pay raises for staff. The quid pro quo, however, was that the university agreed, among other things, to freeze all DEI hiring and eliminate a significant number of DEI positions on campus.

Wisconsin is hardly unique in this regard as Florida banned the use of state and federal dollars for DEI programs at state universities and the Oklahoma governor signed an executive order that halted the funding of many of the DEI programs in that state's government.

In the face of the anti-ESG and anti-DEI pressures being brought to bear, corporate America is adapting in different ways which often involve pushing initiatives under the radar. Some companies have continued their ESG initiatives but without labeling them as ESG endeavors. Coca Cola, for example, renamed its "Business & ESG" report as the "Business and Sustainability" report, dropping the ESG moniker.

Several of the large law firms that were sued over their diversity fellowships have continued offering the positions but have changed the requirement for the positions so that they are open to applicants of all races and backgrounds.

The past several months have evidenced a spike in litigation alleging that the means and methods private companies use to address inequality amount to discrimination. Several major companies bearing household names have altered language in their DEI policies after being threatened with legal action. Programs limited to specific populations (e.g., people of color or those of a particular gender identity) may be targeted and could be subject to legal challenges.

In 2024, it is likely that cases challenging ESG and DEI initiatives will progress through the court system, as DEI opponents work to have the Supreme Court accept a case challenging racial considerations in the workplace. Likewise, activist state legislatures will continue to debate and pass legislation designed to roll back efforts to consider ESG as a factor in government expenditures and investments. And companies will likely continue with their ESG and DEI goals, but in a less explicit manner designed to engender broad community support.

After all, while someone can be anti-ESG, it is much more difficult to be anti-responsibility.

Jumpstart your morning with the latest legal news delivered straight to your inbox from The Daily Docket newsletter. Sign up here.

Opinions expressed are those of the author. They do not reflect the views of Reuters News, which, under the Trust Principles, is committed to integrity, independence, and freedom from bias. Westlaw Today is owned by Thomson Reuters and operates independently of Reuters News.

Purchase Licensing Rights
Steve Blonder is a principal of Much Shelist PC and a legal and business counselor who focuses on complex business litigation and practices before federal and state appellate courts across the country as well as the Illinois Supreme Court. His clients range from Fortune 500 companies and government entities to small businesses and entrepreneurs in a variety of industries, including gaming, consumer packaged goods, financial services, insurance, and real estate. He is located in Chicago and can be reached at sblonder@muchlaw.com.